OBSERVED TRENDS FROM DATA

	Two observable trends can be seen in the data: Charter schools have better performing students and District schools spend more money per student than Charter schools.  The logical inclination is to assume that the more money is spent on each student, the better the student's performance.  The data suggests that lower student populated (schools with less than 2000 students)schools tend to perform better in mathematics and reading.

	As the data suggests, Charter schools have better performing students than District schools.  This may be due to the lower student population at Charter schools, which may lead to a lower student to teacher ration, that can correlate to more teacher and student interactions.  Larger schools found in districts, may not have that luxury to have more personable interactions between educator and student.

	The data also indicates that Districts schools spend more per student than Charter schools.  It isn't hard to assume that there are more District schools established than Charter Schools.  Many Charter schools require an admission process and may not be available to all students in the area; therefore, student size in Charter schools are smaller compared to District schools and are mostly privately funded.  The Federal government guarantees free K through 12 education and funding comes from the federal, state, county, and city governments; in which it can pour billions of dollars into the public education system.  However, many schools are over-crowded and under-staffed, which may have a direct effect on the performance and success of the students, as the data suggests.

	Overall, it appears that Charter schools may seem like a way to help keep students engaged and successful in their schooling years.  Governments need to re-examine the effort and treasure they dedicate to the education system.  Managing student population, the hiring of more educators, and focusing on quality student/teacher interactions may be ways to help improve District student's overall performance.